[Applause]
Captain
Midnight this video is brought to you by
nebula I will be spoiling the movie a
couple years ago I put out a video on
the deeply strange Gladiator sequel that
was planned back in the 2000s which
would have seen Russell Crow's maximus
in the afterlife battling through many
of the biggest conflicts in history even
World War II it was a weird pitch
created by Rockstar Nick cave that never
came to fruition instead about a quar
century after the first film we have a
much more traditional Gladiator 2 one
that is not without its positives
honestly some aspects of this film I
enjoyed a lot and I'll talk about those
too but also one that plays things
incredibly safe and falls into the same
pitfalls as the legacy sequel formula of
movies like Jurassic world or the force
awakens leaving us with a movie that I
didn't have a terrible time with by any
means but also one that fails to live up
to the lofty Legacy of that first film I
don't want to be too harsh on this one
it wasn't a bad night at the movies but
in trying to repeat so many of the Beats
of gladiator it makes the places it
comes up short glaringly obvious before
I get to that I want to mention that I'm
still trying to get the channel to 700k
subscribers before the end of 2024 thank
you to everyone who subscribed we're
really close now so if you find yourself
watching my videos but haven't done it
yet I'd really appreciate it so all
right Gladiator 2 I mentioned Force
awakens for a reason despite that movie
serving as the go-to text for a lot of
legacy sequel things I was still
surprised by how much of this movie's
structure reminded me of it or at least
of its worship of the original Star Wars
so in Gladiator 2 we see that things
basically went horribly wrong right
after the events of the first film I
mean these are not films concerned with
historical accuracy or anything so it
would kind of make sense to think that
Maximus sacrificing his life to take out
the evil emperor kedus would lead to the
restoration of the Republic instead
things immediately went South with
Lucius having to flee Rome as a child
and a pair of previously unmentioned
Brothers taking power it puts a downer
spin on the ending of the first movie
which you know I don't want to get too
hung up on but Gladiator is a movie that
I just watched endlessly in middle
school so hey I can't help it if it
annoys me just a little bit the bigger
issue though is that nearly every
character here feels like kind of a new
spin on a character from the first film
Lucius is motivated by the death of his
wife at the hands of the Roman army just
like Maximus the twin Emperors play out
like a less interesting comist tribute
band echoing Phoenix's creepy spoiled
rich kid performance but without the
psychological underpinnings of that
character where the first movie went out
of its way to make comus a pretty
textured figure a man who designed
desire to be feared and loved in equal
measure lashing out with violence
constantly but also chasing the approval
of a father he murdered and who would
never have granted it to him in the
first place I think the two new actors
give entertaining unhinged performances
but they don't have nearly as much to
work with and then there's Denzel
Washington filling a similar character
type that Oliver Reed did in the first
and I do totally understand why this
Gladiator Master character was the one
the sequel decided to expand on most
Oliver Reed died during the making of
the first one and while he gives a great
performance it had to be truncated
significantly working with what they had
and using the standin where necessary so
it makes a lot of sense that if you're
giving the first movie kind of a soft
reboot treatment that's the role you'd
want to beef up I've heard complaints
that his performance and especially his
accent feel very out of place and while
I can be sympathetic to people seeking
out fiction that takes historical
accuracy seriously I got to say that has
just never been what Gladiator is like
they are larger than life adventure
stories using the Roman Empire as a
backdrop director Ridley Scott has made
his thoughts on pursuing historical
accuracy in his films really clear on
the Press tour for his last movie
Napoleon where he told people who cared
about this to get a life so if that's
something that's near the top of your
priority list when it comes to
historical fiction I really think you'd
be better off check checking out like a
well researched novel maybe something
like Robert Harris's cisero Trilogy
because let's face it this is just not
something that Ridley Scott is
interested in anyway back to Washington
I think he easily gives the most
engaging energetic performance here
making a ever so slightly over-the-top
meal of his scenes in a way that I think
you really want from a movie villain
like this I enjoyed his scheming rise to
the top of Rome's High Society even if
the characters around him were Fair
simplistic my only issue with Denzel's
role here is I think the last 20 minutes
of the movie really wastes all the
cunning he put on display throughout the
rest of it his plot to usurp the
Emperors Works to Perfection and then
his plan to deal with Lucius and his
forces is to uh be a 70-year-old man who
battles a gladiator 40 years younger
than him and not surprisingly he loses
now this is somewhat similar to The Duel
at the end of the first film but comed's
actions just made a lot more sense there
because he was dealing with winning back
the crowd and he tilted things in his
favor by stabbing Maximus beforehand I
just think it's a disappointingly
straightforward ending for a character
who had been portrayed as a really
calculating wielder of power up until
then still I really enjoy Denzel here
and I think he does his absolute best to
elevate a fairly basic script Paul
Mescal as Lucius I'm a little more torn
on I think he works really well and some
of the more in intimate and smallscale
character moments his friendships with
his mentor from North Africa who dies
early on in the film and later with his
doctor and a former Gladiator are some
of his best work here getting across a
real tangible sense of Brotherhood that
at least let me understand why these
other men were ready and willing to
follow him into battle I think it's the
areas that Russell Crow excelled that
where he stumbles he has a scene with
Denzel where mescal's Lucius is
described as being filled with burning
and intense rage now there have been a
lot of Leading Men through the years
that have conveyed that incredibly well
whether you're talking about Russell
Crow Clint Eastwood a young Mel Gibson
or Denzel Washington himself but Paul
Mescal I don't really see it Russell
Crow was never underappreciated in the
first movie I mean he won the Oscar for
it but I think it is easy to take for
granted just how difficult it must be to
take on a character as straightforwardly
no Noble and good as Maximus is and make
him as compelling as that performance
was I think it's an underrated skill in
a leading man and Mescal who has been
great elsewhere I just don't find to be
the right fit here what a crow or
Eastwood is great at is the ability to
convey tons of emotions bubbling just
under the surface with the smallest look
or gesture sadly I don't think mcll is
quite up to that task in Gladiator 2 I
do want to say though it would be far
too easy for me to lay all my issues
with the Lucius character at his feet
when really he was handed a pretty
incoherent character from the start
Lucius at least on paper goes through a
major transformation at the start of the
film he has spent the majority of his
life outside the Roman Empire after
witnessing the worst of it firsthand he
builds a life for himself among the
enemies of Rome he marries he sees his
wife killed at the hands of a Roman
general played by Pedro Pascal so
understandably for most of the film he
despises Rome he denies who he is to his
mother and he seems to have nothing but
contempt for the whole thing this change
of heart he has to believing in Marcus
aurelius's dream the dream passed on to
Maximus feels like what much of the
dramatic heft of the film is supposed to
hinge on but that's just kind of absent
I can square this away in my head
somewhat by saying he was moved by
maximus's grave and the message on it or
by Pascal's apology in the arena but I
just don't think the film makes that
huge change in motivation nearly
satisfying enough especially for a big
historical epic like this a genre which
tends to work in very broad very
sweeping emotional character arcs so
Paul Mescal may not be the next Russell
Crow but I don't think this screenplay
gave him that rock solid framework to
work from that the original definitely
had rolling stone calls Gladiator the
first epic blast of the new century
now Pedro Pascal's character and his
relationship to Connie Nelson from the
first film I actually found pretty
compelling I wish they had more to do
like maybe this is weird to say about a
2 and 1/ half hour movie but I really
feel like a lot of these characters
would have benefited from a longer cut
something Scott has teased as a
possibility down the line I found the
general to be an interesting mirror
image of Maximus almost a vision of what
that character's life would have been
like had he gone along with comed's
murder of the emperor and bent the knee
he's a man who has spent years expertly
planning bloody war campaigns he doesn't
believe in in the name of Emperors that
he despises I think you have the makings
of a really great character there and
his duel with Lucius in the arena is one
of the high points of the film I also
liked Connie Nelson I think she's really
effective here and I found her death
scene and by extension the final scene
of the movie a lot more impactful than I
was really expecting a lot of that is
helped by the score where I thought
Harry Gregory Williams absolutely lived
up to the memorable Heights of the Han
Zimmer original so I thought his work on
the Narnia movies was pretty
underappreciated I actually regret
failing to bring them up in my old video
on those films so I'm glad to correct
that here I've actually found myself
returning to the Gladiator 2 soundtrack
since leaving the theater and it's
really only grown on me now I also think
for all the great things about the
original going back and watching it
recently I was kind of struck by how
shaky and at times incoherent the action
is Ridley Scott doesn't do that here and
while I thought the big monkey things
looked pretty bad and distracting for
the most part I really enjoyed the
battles the arena being filled with
water was a very obvious next step for
these movies considering that it's said
to have actually happened occasionally
and I really loved seeing it here the
sharks in the water yeah I was very on
board my only complaint with that scene
really is the battle almost felt like an
afterthought dramatically as lucious
shooting an arrow at the general became
the focus of the scene this may seem
like a small complaint but one thing I
always appreciated about star Spartacus
show is that even among the plotting and
planning that the characters were doing
in the narrative the arena always felt
dangerous like a place where even the
most hardened Warrior could be cut down
if he wasn't fighting to win I think the
arena battles in Gladiator 2 as great as
they were could have used a bit more
narrative urgency and a sense of danger
overall Gladiator 2 is not a movie that
I regret spending time with it didn't
blow me away and it plays things a
little safe with its legacy sequel SL
soft reboot structure the original is
just not a film that was really asking
for this but I think there's enough here
that if you're in the mood for a sword
and sandals epic you could do a lot
worse I know that probably doesn't sound
like the most ringing endorsement but as
someone who does love that genre it's
kind of enough for me honestly I'll
probably even see this one again before
it leaves theaters Gladiator 2 is Middle
of the Road Ridley Scott and how you
react to it will I think largely depend
on how you feel about his filmography as
a whole the Gladiator movies are part of
the long history of Hollywood historical
epics which tend to take themselves
pretty seriously if you're looking for
something that does the exact opposite
and deflates those a little bit I'm
happy to say that nebula is now the home
of Rift tracks now Rift tracks are some
of the guys from Mystery Science Theater
3000 carrying on the legacy of doing
some of the best commentary tracks ever
recorded they've been great for decades
and I'm so happy to see them making
waves on nebula nebula is a boutique
streaming service where you can watch
all my videos plus a few exclusive ones
totally ad free not to mention videos by
tiu polyphonic Nando V movies Lindsay
Ellis they're all there alongside so
many others and it encompasses a lot of
genres of video nebula has put in a ton
of effort over the years to become a
Prestige streaming service for viewers
and creators and it just continues to
get better and better so don't miss it
get a nebula subscription at go.
nebula.com or description
below here's a special tip for the
fellas and girls who have have not
already joined Captain Midnight's new
1940 flight Patrol you'd better hurry up
and join at once because there's a big
adventure ahead the thing to do now is
to get started because we're going to
have not only barrels of fun but loads
of free gifts and prizes too
